 Viewers at the exclusive ‘Press Screening’ of the ‘Fast and Furious 9 (F9); The Fast Saga’, which was held over the weekend at Silverbird Cinema, Lagos, were left jaw-dropped, after seeing the latest series of the action-packed movie. The press screening which was attended by journalists was held in preparation for the official release date across all cinemas in Nigeria on June 25, 2021. The long-awaited movie which is being marketed and distributed across all cinemas in Nigeria by Silverbird Film Distribution featured some new acts, among whom are popular American Wrestler, John Cena, who starred as Jakob, a younger brother to the central figure of the movie, Dominic Toretto, known as Vin Diesel, and popular female American Rapper, Cardi B, as Leysa. The movie which was Co-produced by, Vin Diesel, Jeff Kirschenbaum, Justin Lin, Valentino Morales, Neal Moritz, Joe Roth, Clayton Townsend, Samantha Vincent, and Directed by Justin Lin, began with an opening scene of how Jakob and Vin Diesel lost their father to a car racing accident. It portrayed ‘family bond’ as its central theme, and also had unity, love, relationship, networking, rejection, hope, forgiveness, resentment, determination, respect, and innovation among others, as subthemes. The exclusive first viewers of the movie which majorly consisted of journalists from different media organisations were exposed to all-around action from the opening scene to the closing scene. The movie did not only deploy acrobatic acts, car races, car stunts, martial arts, comic reliefs, sarcasm, and irony to entertain viewers but likewise deployed suspense, to perfectly sustain the viewer’s attention. After seeing the movie, Ewoma Luther-Abegunde, the marketing manager of Sliverbird Films Distributions expressed pleasure at the reactions of the viewers. According to her, “I just sat down there and was just taking the reaction from everyone from my left and right. “People were clapping; people were clapping, shouting and were just making different amazing reactions. In fact, someone was seated beside me and was really tense. I was like, ‘I hope you haven’t pee on your body’. “Because it was so intense, it was so full of energy, excitement, and above all, it was full of hope. Hope for reconciliation, you just need to come to the cinema to understand what I mean.” Also speaking, Racheal Isaac, a viewer described the movie as “action-packed, fast cars, great acting, and believable tricks. I don’t know, I have been saying this all day. The movie is very believable and it was a very good watch. I rate this high.” Speaking about her favourite act, she said, “My favourite character was Jakob. He can never do wrong in my eyes. Even if he killed everyone in the movie, I’ll still be rooting for him, because I am a very big fan of him.