 An aspirant for the All Progressives Congress (APC) ticket in the forthcoming Anambra State governorship election, JohnBosco Onunkwo said if he emerged the party’s candidate, the All Progressives Grand Alliace (APGA) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) would be dissolved into slime. Onunkwo who made this declaration while addressing journalists after submitting his nomination and expression of interest forms at the APC National Secretariat, Abuja said he has personal relationship with people across party lines. The Anambra governorship hopeful said he believes in the unity of Nigeria and as a youth who is a grand-patron of Ohaneze Ndigbo Youth worldwide, and grand commander of the 90% registered youth bodies in Anambra State, he was ready to work with people of all creed. While emphasising that he would be a practical leader, Onunkwo said: “What people need is a governor that is accessible and will engage the people. One that can wear a knicker and khaki, talk to them in terms they will understand and give them that promise that will be bonded with covenant. “If I become governor, I will calm down fray nerves for my continuous engagement with humility, transparency that will be bonded in honesty. “The problem is that, when you promise people before getting into office and you dont fulfill. My promise is coming with a covenant. One that will be bonded with love by God and be secured”. The Building Engineer said he has all the leadership credentials to govern Light of the Nation State, adding that he has the password for every youth coming up in Anambra. Onunkwo disclosed that he is in the game of politics to free Anambra people from economic impotence, spiritual complacency and doctrines of tribes and tongue which do not only impede national progress and prosperity but also, “serve self imposed abstractions of political theology”. On acceptability of his party, the APC in Anambra State, the aspirant said: “I have never seen APC as a hard sell and that is why I don’t crisscross in party. Ever since I had this passion for politicking, I started from AC, ACN and APC. He promised to work with any aspirant that emerged APC flagbearer for the success of party as he has personal relationship with all his co-contestants.