 Livestock Feeds Plc, a subsidiary of UAC Nigeria has boosted agricultural practice in a Lagos School with establishment of a smallholding poultry farm. This is part of the Company’s activities to mark the 2021 children’s day celebration with Sango Senior Secondary School, Agege, Lagos state being the beneficiary of the Corporate Social Responsibility project. Adegoyega Adedeji, managing director, Livestock Feeds Plc speaking during the commissioning of the project stated that the teaching of Agricultural science practical in schools is very pivotal in the Nigeria educational system to equip students with the basic skills required. “Livestock Feeds Plc CSR initiatives are anchored on the pillars of Education, Sustainable Environment, and Infrastructure. As an organization, our continuous commitment is to remain socially responsible to the communities in which we operate. Read Also: Agriculture proves to be pathway to sustainable development of Akwa Ibom “The launch of Livestock Feeds Agricultural CSR initiatives in secondary school will further aid the students in appreciating and embracing the science of Agriculture and promote agricultural entrepreneurship amongst the Nigerian youth in the nearest future,” he added. The objective of the initiative, according to the Managing Director is to support the educational sector in Nigeria with a key focus on bridging theory and practical teachings of the Agricultural science subject in secondary schools. “This initiative aims to equip students with the basic skills, management techniques and agribusiness proficiency involved in rearing poultry in animal production as well as prepare them for further studies and future occupation in Agriculture. Also, through this CSR initiative, Livestock Feeds aims to achieve one of the seventeen (17) Sustainable Development Goals (SDGS) with particular focus on Agriculture which seeks sustainable solutions to end hunger in all its forms by 2030 and to achieve food security.” According to the Sales and Marketing Manager, Foluso Alabi, “the poultry farm will equally serve as a mini-research base for the school, government and students. It will provide an opportunity for the students to practically experiment with Agricultural science in a real sense”. In her address at the event, Solarin Titiloya, tutor general/permanent secretary, Lagos State Education District 1, Agege who was represented by the Director (Co-curricular, Science and Technology Department), Education District 1, Agege, Omoaka Lucy Emike, harped on the importance of the project for the students of Sanngo Senior Secondary School in particular and Lagos State in general. She thanked the Livestock Feeds Plc for their gesture, stating that the farm will expose the students of the school to practical the aspect of agriculture as well as deepen their knowledge in the area of poultry farming and make them self-reliant after graduation. Earlier in her welcome remark, Adewale Oluremi, principal of the School, described the project as an honour for the school, adding that the establishment of the poultry farm in the school “will help to equip Students with the necessary skills needed to rear poultry animals as well as empower them for the future.”