 President Muhammadu Buhari will on Monday, June 21 declared open, the maiden edition of All Progressives Congress (APC) youth conference which is aimed at deepening democratic process through youth inclusion. Other speakers expected at the conference are Julius Malema, Leader of South Africa’s opposition Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF), Ahmed Lawan, Senate President, Femi Gbajabiamila, Speaker, House of Representatives, Babatunde Raji Fashola, Minister of Works, Akin Oyebode, Tonye Cole, Kabir Aregbesola, Daniel Bwala, amongst others. APC Youth Leader, Imail Ahmed who disclosed this at a press conference in Abuja on Wednesday said, being the first of its kind since the APC came into governance, the meeting seeks to restate progressives values of the party. He said the conference will hold at the International Conference Center, Abuja with progressives youth delegates from the 36 states of the federation and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). Ahmed explained that those wishing to participate in the conference are encouraged to log on to the official website of the conference www.pyc21.ng and register from Wednesday, June 9 to Saturday, June 19, 2021. Speaking further on the import of the conference, the APC youth leader said:
“You will agree with me that youth, vision, energy and skill is essential to moving the country forward. Nigeria as a country, was built on the back of these ideals and remains a young nation. “While age alone is not a predictor of success in governance, the realities of the pace of commerce, culture and technological change requires adept hands-on leadership best found within the youth. “Noteworthy also is, citizen influence and participate in politics is pillar of any democracy. The last elections had shown that the future of politics and governance lies with citizen and youth engagement. “Parties which emerged on elitist ideals are today currently, facing difficulties in attracting new party members, and in particular youths due to continued marginalisation”. He said proportion of registered voters in 2019 elections were youths who constituted more than half of the voting population, adding that the conference would give a voice to the ordinary, un-represented and disenchanted youth.