 Edo State governor, Godwin Obaseki on Wednesday boasted that the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) will produce the next president in 2023 on the back of successes recorded by Nigeria’s main opposition party. Obaseki said the party will leverage on the e-registration process to increase its membership ahead of the polls. He stated: “I am the chairman of the National Committee for e-registration for PDP; the position is very significant. PDP will install the next president in 2023, as Nigerians have seen the difference. “As a party, we need membership drive at the ward levels and if we do this successfully, our victory in 2023 is sure.” Speaking to supporters and party faithful in Benin City, he said the September 19, 2020 governorship election that brought him in for a second term has defined the future of politics in Nigeria. The governor reassured that his administration would sustain efforts to develop the state and deliver the dividends of democracy to all Edo people. “I am here to thank all of you for your various roles played in the September 19, 2020 gubernatorial election, which led us to victory. You voted us unanimously and returned us to power for another four years. “The election was a victory for Edo people, as it shows you can all stand together for one purpose. Politically, the election has shown that we know what we are doing and where we are going. The victory comes with a lot of responsibility, which is why we have not rushed to form our government.” “It’s time to make our political appointments. Our political arrangements now are a win-win situation; one to benefit our people. Politics in Edo is different now and my political leaders should also be my economic leaders,” Obaseki said. “Our people are expecting so much from us; we need the support and commitment from all party members to enable us work and deliver services to our people. We have resources to attain any level of development in Edo State, but there are too many leakages in our revenue system,” he added.