 Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State has called on the All Progressives Congress (APC)-led Federal Government to rise up and give leadership, saying that “our people are in pain.” Ortom, who joined Governor ‘Seyi Makinde to commission the 65-kilometre Moniya-Ojutaye-Ijaiye-Iseyin Road, added that the PDP has been demonstrating good leadership as evident in its governors delivering laudable infrastructure projects. He challenged the APC to step up its game, saying: “From North-East, North-West to North-Central to South-South, South-East and South-West, everyone is faced with security challenges and without security there can be no meaningful development except in PDP-controlled state.” According to him, “In 2015, the mantle of leadership was given to APC. But from all indications, it is clear to every Nigerian that APC does not have the capacity to deliver. Go and check, economically, how much was one dollar when APC came into government in 2015? What was the nature of our security in this country when APC took over power? What was our social relationship in this country? Politically too, where were we? But let us work hard and by praying, as we pray, (whether Muslims or Christians) let us also apply work because faith without work is dead. “So, let us work very hard so that come 2023, by the grace of God, we shall change the change.” Ortom, who was the special guest of honour at the event, noted that “The PDP is working despite all the economic and security challenges. The PDP has demonstrated leadership and that is why we are commissioning this road today, which is amazing. “I want to challenge the APC in this country, because they have failed. Economically, security-wise, they have failed. Socially and politically, the APC government is in deficit. Government is all about providing security for lives and property. Government is about providing infrastructure like the one we are doing here today. He equally commended Oyo State people for their resolve to continue to back Governor Makinde, saying: “I commend Oyo State people for giving Makinde the backing; for supporting him. As we were coming from the Government House down to this place, the members of the public generally were waving in applause to our governor. Don’t ever contemplate leaving your people. Work with them, do what they want, share their pains, and also help them to give them leadership that will lead them out of their pains.” Governor Makinde, while speaking at the official commissioning ceremony held at the Akinyele Local Government Secretariat, Moniya, Ibadan, maintained that the Moniya-Ijaiye-Iseyin road would enhance the socio-economic development of the state and play a major role in engineering a modern Oyo State. He added that the project aligns with his administration’s focus to lift the people of the state from poverty to prosperity, noting that the government has, in the last two years, embarked on reducing the infrastructure deficit in the state and building infrastructure that target the economy. Makinde stated that the road was revoked and re-awarded by the present administration on November 5, 2019, after the contractor engaged by the previous government demonstrated lack of capacity. He added that the fact that the road was completed in 18 months despite the challenges of Covid-19 pandemic and economic recession, which affected activities around the world, showed the administration’s commitment to keeping its promises. While addressing those in attendance at the official commissioning of the road project, including the Olubadan of Ibadanland, Oba Saliu Adetunji and other notable traditional rulers, especially from the Oke Ogun zone of the state, Governor Makinde said that the delivery of the road project is another promise kept. The governor added that the project was one of many projects that would play a major role in engineering “a modern Oyo State where the prosperity of the people through economic integration serves as the fulcrum of government’s decisions.” He said: “First, let me appreciate my brother, Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State for travelling down to be with us on this happy occasion. I want to use this opportunity to convey the deepest sympathies of myself, my family and the good people of Oyo State to you over the death of your Senior Special Assistant on Security, Christopher Dega. May God grant you and his friends and family the strength to bear the loss. “I am sure I speak for myself, the people of Iseyin in particular and the good people of Oyo State when I say, we are delighted that you could be here today at the commissioning of the 65-kilometres Moniya-Ijaiye-Iseyin Road. “This road remained in a deplorable state for several years. I remember that immediately after I became governor, I began to receive SOS messages regarding this road. I remember this particular request on social media from someone who said some parents have had to withdraw their children from school because of their inability to navigate this road to get to school.” According to him, “What we have done here is the total reconstruction of this 65km road at N9.9 billion and this translates to N152 million per kilometre. So again, based on science, data and logic we made the best decision overall.”