 The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) on Thursday declared that those trying to take down President Muhammadu Buhari through the back door would not succeed. Secretary, APC Caretaker/Extra-Ordinary Convention Planning Committee, John-James Akpanudoedehe made the declaration while playing host to APC Professionals Forum at the party’s National Secretariat in Abuja. Akpanudoedehe said some disgruntled elements were hyping up for people to know that there is insecurity in country to bring down the government of APC but their plans will not work. He insisted that the Buhari-led administration cannot be judged based on social media comments and “artificial” security situation in the country. “Ladies and gentlemen, President Muhammadu will be judged by security and other achievements but the issue of security is not going to be artificial security situation in Nigeria. “It seems that people are now paying attention to blackmail in the social media. For example, in the social media, a lot of educated young people were misled to believe that SARS was an evil organisation inside the police and today we are having pockets of insecurity everywhere because the effects of SARS have really weakened the morale of the Police. “There are some bad eggs in the Police but we must also understand that the police have a system within its organisation, to try and dismiss and convict any misbehaved Police officer just as we have in the Army and the Navy”, the APC scribe said. Akpanudoedehe urged the new Inspector-General of Police, Usman Alkali-Baba to get back the spirit of effective policing by re-energising the Force to defend Nigerians not minding what happened, during the #EndSARS protest. Earlier, National Coordinator of APC Professionals Forum, Akeem Akintayo said it was midway into the second term of President Buhari and the forum believes it is the best time to reel out outstanding achievements and performances that will ease APC campaigns and messaging towards the 2023 general elections. “As we move forward to the next general election, APC Professionals Forum appreciate the leadership of our great party ably represented by the ever committed and dedicated National Secretary of our great party, for the support of this project to provide a noble platform like this for accountability of stewardship for our performing appointees and elected officials to tell Nigerians what they have done on behalf of the party,” he stated.