 The Ondo State Governorship Election Petitions Tribunal sitting in Akure on Tuesday struck out the petition of the People’s Democratic Party’s candidate in last year’s governorship election, Eyitayo Jegede, against Governor of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for lack of jurisdiction. Recall that the parties had on 25 February this year adopted their written addresses before the tribunal, while the governorship candidate of the PDP, Jegede, had in the petition filed before the tribunal challenged the outcome of the gubernatorial election in the state that returned Governor Akeredolu. Jegede, who faulted Akeredolu’s participation at the poll, alleged that he and his deputy, Lucky Aiyedatiwa of the APC, were not validly nominated. BusinessDay reports that the tribunal judgment, which was held via Zoom, had been earlier scheduled for Wednesday April 21, and later rescheduled to Tuesday. The three-man panel led by Justice Umar Abubakar, however, struck out the petition of Jegede of the PDP for lack of jurisdiction. Read Also: APC governors tackle Obaseki over FGs printing of N60bn Meanwhile, the ruling APC has hailed the judgment describing it as victory for the people of Ondo State, who abandoned everything on October 10, 2020 to cast their votes. Alex Kalejaye, the APC State Publicity Secretary, in a statement made available to journalists in Akure shortly after the judgement, commended the 3-man tribunal for being dispassionate and objective in considering all the arguments and counter-arguments assembled before it, while the trial lasted. Kalejaye, however, advised the main opposition party to accept the judgment in good faith and put its house in order while preparing for future elections. Also reacting, Alex Ajipe, an APC Chieftain said the APC candidate, Akeredolu truly deserved the
victory despite the intimidation, harassment and violence unleashed on APC supporters and other shenanigans perpetrated by opposition parties in the state. Ajipe, who spoke through his Media Aide, Solomon Adewoye said the judgment of the tribunal, affirming the governor electoral victory has further demonstrated that his election was indeed a true reflection of the wishes of the people. He urged governor Akeredolu to be magnanimous in victory and extend his hands of fellowship to the opposition party, PDP in order to unite the people. But, the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), speaking through its Publicity Secretary, Kennedy Peretei, said it would appeal the judgment. “it is important to stress that, in its wisdom, the Tribunal admitted that issues raised by the petitioners were sufficient for consideration but Constitutionally, which the Tribunal is not in a position to do justice to. The interpretation of the Constitution is a role reserved exclusively for the highest Court in the land-the Supreme Court of Nigeria. “The Constitution of every country is the document that regulates the actions and behaviour of her citizens. Therefore, it is our belief that nobody can flagrantly trample on the 1999 Constitution (as Amended) and escape with the excuse that the Tribunal has no jurisdiction. “The PDP is convinced that we have a strong case for which we shall be vindicated at the end of the day. “We wish to appeal to all our party faithful to be steadfast and remain calm in the present circumstance, as we are sure of victory in the long run.”