 The Oyo State Independent Electoral Commission (OYSIEC) on Wednesday announced May 22, 2021 as the new date for the much-anticipated local government council elections. The change comes as the earlier announced date of May 15 may fall within Eid El Fitri holiday. The Commission’s Chairman, Isiaka Abiola Olagunju, disclosed this at the flag-off of State Wide Campaign on Voter Education and Mobilization towards free, fair, peaceful and credible election. The event was organized by the National Orientation Agency (NOA), in conjunction with Oyo State Independent Electoral Commission (OYSIEC), at Ibadan North East Local Government Secretariat, Iwo Road, Ibadan. According to him, the new date would afford all registered voters the opportunity to partake in the election conveniently compared to having it on the earlier date of May 15. While speaking during the visit of OYSIEC to executives and members of Development Farmers Association of Oyo State at Moor Plantation, Odo Ona Ibadan, Olagunju maintained that the Commission has the mandate of delivering credible elections for the people of the state. Read Also: Oyo rescues, resettles 100 victims of human trafficking in one year He commended the farmers for their roles in nation building and sought their support in mobilising the public on the need to go out en-masse and vote on election day for their preferred candidates. “It is important we shift the election by one week for us to get the desired result in terms of massive turnout . “Election into chairmanship and councillorship positions will now hold on Saturday, 22nd of May, 2021 between 8am to 3pm. We are appealing to our religious fathers, traditional rulers, farmers and other key stakeholders to mobilize and educate the people on the need to participate in the local government council elections,” he said. The State Director, National Orientation Agency, Oyo State, Moshood Olaleye, while enumerating the importance of having democratically elected administrators at the helms of affairs at local government level, enjoined the people of the state to allow peace to reign in their localities before, during and after the election. Also speaking, the Chairman, Development Farmers Association, Oyo State, Saliu Imam, said that the association would mobilize and work closely with the commission for the success of the election.