 Governors of Southeast zone said all is set to unveil the regional security outfit and uniform for the zone. Chairman Southeast Governors Forum and Governor of Ebonyi state Engr David Umahi made this known on Tuesday during a press briefing after a special security council meeting held in Uburu, Ohaozara local government area of the state. Umahi explained that no name has been chosen for the regional security outfit but the Governors of Abia, Enugu, Anambra, Imo, and Ebonyi would meet to decide a name for the outfit. Umahi who said security agencies have been challenged to arrest those coursing bridge of peace in Ebonyi state no matter the party such person belong alleged that Ebonyi security challenges are politically motivated. The governor expressed disappointment on the activities of hoodlums who are trying to bring disharmony between Fulani headers and residents of Ebonyi state. Governor Umahi pleaded with other Governors of the zone not to joke with the security of the zone. “There is a growing concern of security in the State and it had a lot of political undertones. The idea is to discredit the Governor of the State. If not properly handled will lead to an attack on our brothers and sisters. We have been leaving peacefully with the Fulani herdsmen in the State. “We have an agreement with the Fulani herdsmen for peaceful coexistence. The issue of IPOB and Fulani herdsmen are very sensitive. It will ignite a crisis for the whole of this country if not properly handled. “We have over 11 million Igbo in the North and also 3 million in the West. This issue of igniting crisis against the Fulani should be condemned by all. It will consume everybody. The issue of security is very serious. “There is an orchestrated plan to portray Ebonyi and the Governor in a negative light. I don’t know why the searchlight is turned on me. What is going on is beyond politics and capable of causing a national crisis? On the raging war of words between the governor and his former political associates, Sen. Pius Anyim and Dr. Sam Egwu, the governor urged his supporters to a ceasefire as he has moved on with his life. “We had Meeting with founding fathers of the State; Dr. Sam Egwu, Senator Anyim Pius Anyim. There should be a cease-fire. Government officials should not attack dignitaries in the State. I have accepted the decision of the founding fathers. “Let’s us face our party and Governance. southeast Governors had a meeting on security. We are going to unveil uniforms and vehicles for adequate protection of lives and properties.