 Paul Ikonne, the executive secretary of National Agricultural Land Development Authority (NALDA), has said 2,040 young farmers would be trained and engaged in Borno State as part of efforts to tackle rising unemployment rate in the state. Ikonne disclosed this when he led a delegation of NALDA on a visit to Governor Babagana Zulum, in Maiduguri, Borno State, where he promised continuous patronage of products from the Borno Plastic Company, to promote local content. Ikonne, who was impressed by the work that the Zulum-led administration is doing, announced a partnership with the state government, as he placed an order for the production of two million plastic sacks, mostly 50kg capacity. “We have seen what you (Zulum) are doing; we have seen your factories and I want to inform you that in one of your factories, the sack manufacturing factory, NALDA is placing an order for 2 million sacks for packaging purposes in nationwide food programme in which Borno has been selected as one of the pilot states. READ ALSO: ‘We are opening new possibilities for Nigerians, businesses with broadband’ “So we have to partner for continuous purchase and production from NALDA; that is the only way Nigeria can move forward by having synergy, working with states that are creative and governor that has direction. I thank you for the infrastructure that you have put in place. “We are in your state based on Mr President directives, that we should reactive NALDA’s abandoned farm estates across the country, and also inform you that Borno State has been chosen as one of the states for NALDA’s pilot programme. He said NALDA would be engaging 2,040 young farmers in Borno State in fish farming, adding that these young farmers would be trained and properly equipped. “We will partner with you, we will also put our programme on the ground to empower the youths and engage them to reduce unemployment so that they can be employers of labour, “Ikonne said. Governor Zulum on his praised the vision of his predecessor in office, Kashim Shettima for investing in the acquisition of capital-intensive agricultural machinery which makes Borno one of the most agriculturally equipped in Nigeria.