 Contrary to the permutations ahead of the 2023 general elections, indicating that the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) may lost its grip on power, the party has insisted that it will continue to win every election in the country. Govenror of Kogi State, Yahaya Bello made this declaration in Abuja on Tuesday shortly after his inauguration as Chairman of Women and Youth Sensitization and Mobilization Committee for the forthcoming APC membership registration and revalidation exercise. Bello assured the party’s leadership that the Committee would immediately swing into action and mobilize Nigerians to ensure that APC membership is tripped, if not quadrupled at the end of the exercise. He boasted that by the time APC would be done with all the registration of new members and revalidation of existing members, the party will not just be the largest in Africa but developed nations such as the United States of America (USA), United Kingdom and others will have to learn from its political acumen. “We’re going to call on even the developed nations to come and learn from APC in Nigeria. We shall even teach some of our brothers who have just concluded elections that were rancorous. I will not mention names but we’re going to be an institution of politics in Nigeria”, Bello said. The Kogi Governor while addressing journalists, however declined comments on his 2023 Presidential ambition, saying: “The task at hand now is to mobilize the women and the youths and the disabled all over Nigeria to come and join the APC. “Like I said, Mr. President has promised the next-generation to get themselves ready for the next leadership and that is what we are practicing here and that is why I have been charged with that responsibility to move and mobilize women and youth and less-privileged into our great party so that tomorrow we can have a voice and determine what this country will become”. Earlier in his inaugural speech, Chairman, APC Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee and Governor of Yobe State, Mai-Mala Buni, charged the Committee to mount rigorous sensitization programme to effectively mobilise every member of the Party especially women and youth to either revalidate their membership or register afresh. “You should leave no stone unturned to ensure effective mobilization for every member to take advantage of this opportunity to register. “I want to assure you that the leadership of the party would provide the committee with all the necessary support to ensure the success of your assignment. “You are enjoined to work as a team to achieve the desired goal with ease and within the expected time frame. “The committee is hereby advised to liaise with all stakeholders in all the states to carry everyone on board for an all inclusive programme”, Buni instructed.