 The Bukola Saraki led Reconciliation Committee and Strategic Committee of Nigeria’s main opposition party, the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) Wednesday have reconciled warring leaders of the party in Lagos State. The Lagos chapter has been embroiled in a protracted crisis over the sharing of executive positions among leaders in the state. The party leader in the state, Bode George, also disagreed with the chairman of the chapter, Deji Doherty since he assumed office two years ago, on several issues and the running of the party. However, both leaders were able to embrace the truce after the meeting in which they also promised to work for victory in future elections. Saraki, a former Senate President, called for cohesion, saying there is strength in unity and concord. The reconciliation meeting was held at the Southern Sun Hotel, Ikoyi, where Saraki also met with other PDP stakeholders in the state. In the Saraki’s entourage were former governors, Liyel Imoke (Cross River), Ibrahim Dankwambo (Gombe), Ibrahim Shema (Kaduna), Mulikat Adeola-Akande and Linus Okorie. Read Also: Fayemi, Akeredolu endorse resolutions of S/west APC leaders Lagos PDP chieftains at the peace parley included the Secretary, Muiz Dosunmu, former acting national secretary Remi Akitoye, Senator Kofo Akerele-Bucknor, Lai Ogunbambi, Uthman Shodipe, and Otunba Okanlawon among others. At the meeting, the leaders and committee members discussed the protracted crisis and the need for mutual forgiveness and peace to move the party to the next level, while the need for George to be accorded the respect of the party leader in the state was pointed out. Saraki, who spoke with reporters after the meeting, urged the warring chieftains to sheathe their swords, jettison bitterness and adorn a forgiving spirit in the interest of the party. According to him, “We have reconciled the party leaders today and they are ready to dissipate their energies to push the agenda of the PDP for Lagos State. We are happy to see that”. Speaking on the reconciliation in an Interview with BusinessDay, the Lagos State Publicity Secretary of the party, Taoffick Gani, said the party leaders were now united and working in accord to take over the state from the All Progressives Congress (APC). “Yes, the reconciliation committee was in Lagos and met with the leaders, it was a fruitful meeting, everyone would be given his due and recognised going forward, the leaders are also poised to work in accord and take over Lagos from APC,” Gani said. A chieftain of the party in Lagos State, Femi Careena, welcomed the development, stressing that the reconciliation was a sign of good things to come for PDP in the state. “The reconciliation among the leaders is a good thing, a welcome development and is long overdue, is what the party needs at this level to move forward,” Careena said.