 The Akwa Ibom State Government is set to partner with Akwa Ibom State Association of Nigeria, USA (AKISAN) in software development and vocational training to foster unity between people at home and in the diaspora. Governor Udom Emmanuel made this known while playing host to the leadership of Akwa Ibom State Association of Nigeria, USA (AKISAN), at Government House, Uyo. The governor who expressed appreciation with AKISAN, for their initiative to encourage craftsmanship and vocational training of Akwa Ibom youths assured them of the state government’s readiness to collaborate and attract Foreign Direct Investments(FDI) into the State. “It gladdens my heart to see a lot of people, even though they are not around, but their mind still gets back home to see what they can do for others. Read Also: Akwa Ibom coconut oil factory to generate over 1000 jobs, says Udom “You have talked about your convention; you have talked about a lot of skills for development, you brought in terms of culinary, ICT and so many other areas in which you will like us to partner with and other developmental initiatives that you are trying to bring to bear. “We will collaborate in so many areas you have mentioned, be rest assured of our support”, he stated. He thanked AKISAN for their voluntary contributions to the people in their homeland, emphasizing the need to further promote and encourage creative skills and Made in Akwa Ibom State products. He added that the collaboration will showcase the state’s products and business opportunities to the world at large. In his remarks, the National President and leader of the delegation, Itoro Akpan-Iquot said that AKISAN as a non-profit organisation has embarked on some projects in the state, from medical missions to scholarship, and promised to partner with the state to do more in these areas. Akpan-Iquot, acknowledged the developmental strides of governor Udom Emmanuel in the state and showed that AKISAN is in the State to inspect vocational training sponsored by the organisation and also sensitise people on the vision and mission of AKISAN in Akwa Ibom State. “We are a non-profit organization of 34 years; we are here in the State to invite the Governor to our convention coming up in August, we are also here to inspect the projects that we sponsor here in Akwa Ibom State. Right now we have three vocational training programmes in software development and also in culinary arts and cosmetology. “We are also here for publicity tour because a lot of people don’t know who we are or what we do. We are looking forward to bringing Foreign Direct Investments(FDI) into the State”.