 Nigeria’s Ndidi and Mezuo Nwuneli, founders of Sahel Consulting have been honoured with the Harvard Business School Alumni Achievement Award. The award was conferred on the couple during the recently held virtual graduation ceremony for the MBA class of 2021. The Alumni Achievement Award comes after a year when the Nwuneli’s become the first couple to deliver a keynote address at Harvard Business School’s class day. Currently, Mezuo Nwuneli is co-founder and managing partner of Sahel Capital Agribusiness Managers, a food and agriculture-focused private equity firm focused on transforming the agricultural sector in West Africa. Also, he is co-founder of AACE Foods, a food processing company that produces spices, seasonings, and packaged food. Early in his career, he worked in J.P. Morgan’s mergers and acquisitions group in New York before returning to Nigeria to help entrepreneurs build businesses. Ndidi Nwuneli is the co-founder and managing partner of Sahel Consulting Agriculture and Nutrition, which shapes policy and implements ecosystem solutions across West Africa. She co-founded AACE Foods to fight malnutrition, reduce post-harvest losses among small farmers, and displace imports with locally sourced products. Ndidi co-founded AACE Foods to fight malnutrition, reduce post-harvest losses among small farmers, and displace imports with locally sourced products. Similarly, she is the founder of LEAP Africa, a nonprofit that empowers Africa’s generation of leaders, and Nourishing Africa, a digital hub that provides funding, training, and support to agriculture and food entrepreneurs in 34 African countries. Apart from the Nwuneli’s, four other recipients were also awarded and they are; Ray Dalio (MBA 1973), co-CIO, and chairman of Bridgewater Associates; H. Naylor Fitzhugh (MBA 1933) posthumous award, first African American graduates of HBS; Astronaut Terry Virts (GMP 11, 2011), a NASA veteran of two spaceflights; and Deborah Winshel (MBA 1985), managing director and global head of social impact at BlackRock. “Throughout their careers, these distinguished graduates have contributed significantly to their companies and communities while upholding the highest standards and values in everything they do,” the school said on its website. “Exemplary role models, they inspire all those who aspire to have an impact on both business and society,” the statement stated.